feat(profiling): Document the Sample format (#841)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/sdk/sample-format.mdx

---
title: Sample format
sidebar_order: 20
---

This document defines the Sample format used by Sentry to ingest profiles. This
document is meant for Sentry SDK developers and maintainers of the profile
ingestion pipeline.

This format is meant to be cross platform and allow to represent samples
collected by a profiler.

A profile should always be associated with a transaction.

## Data Model

### Example

```json
{
  "debug_meta": { ... },
  "device": {
    "architecture": "arm64e",
    "is_emulator": true,
    "locale": "en_US",
    "manufacturer": "Apple",
    "model": "iPhone14,8"
  },
  "environment": "development",
  "event_id": "",
  "measurements": { ... },
  "os": {
    "build_number": "",
    "name": "iOS",
    "version": "16.3",
  },
  "platform": "cocoa",
  "release": "1.0 (9999)",
  "runtime": {
    "name": "",
    "version": ""
  },
  "timestamp": "2023-01-01T00:00:00.000Z",
  "transaction": {
    "id": "",
    "name": "",
    "trace_id": "",
    "active_thread_id": "",
  },
  "version": "1",

>   "profile": { ... },

Reviewer: Wdyt about adding one example of sample, weight etc here? Would be nice to be able to see the whole format in a single place.

could be like

```
"profile": {
  "samples": [{relative_ts_ns: 0, stack_id: 0, thread_id: 0}...]
},
```
and same for weights and stacks obviously

Author: I describe the profiling data separately below https://github.com/getsentry/develop/pull/841/files#diff-f87ed348469343306eb1312b9ba48345f7e7657ba2ae3e62c4d4da89eb0a2b82R199.

I think separating the metadata from the raw data would help to make it easier to read through and reference.

Reviewer: Yeah, I understand - I like it when everything in the same place (even if it's not explained) so you minimize any user error from going back/forth between definitions (I find that useful when trying to validate the format). In any case, it's a short doc so not a big concern

Author: Alright, I can expand the example to include those fields as well, it doesn't need to be separate.

Also, I'm planning to ship a JSON Schema definition to be able to validate the profile, I think that'd be helpful.

Reviewer: ➕  for JSON schema. Btw, I do wonder if it would make sense to document the validation constraints or reasons why a "valid" schema may still get dropped, e.g profiles with <= 1 samples.

Author: Yes, very good point, that's something I need to add to this document.

`timestamp` field).
3. Capture the thread ID where this stack trace was captured.
4. Create a list of indices for each frames (add it to the frame list if needed
or use the existing frame's index).
5. Check if that stack exists in the list of stacks and if it doesn't, add it to the list of stacks
6. Create a sample containing the thread ID, the relative timestamp and the
stack ID.

`samples`

: *List, required* Contains a list of sample object captured during execution.
Each sample can contain the following attributes:

- `elapsed_since_start_ns`: *String, required.* Contains the relative timestamp in nanoseconds since the value contained
in the `timestamp` field when the sample was captured.
- `stack_id`: *Integer, required.* Contains the stack index from the `stacks` list.
- `thread_id`: *String, required.* Contains the thread ID on which the sample was captured.

```json
{
  "elapsed_since_start_ns": 1234567890,
  "stack_id": 1,
  "thread_id": "259",
}
```

`stacks`

: *List, required*. Contains a list of frame indices forming a stack trace.

`frames`

: *List, required*. Contains a list of frame objects (see [Frame

> Attributes](/sdk/event-payloads/stacktrace/#frame-attributes)).

Reviewer: What does this reference btw? Would be nice to have contents of frames documented in this doc too. I only see instruction address in the sample above

Author: For native platforms, the bare minimum is to have an instruction address. For platforms like Python or Node, I need a package, function, file names and line info. Now, we support all the attributes listed in the section "Frame Attributes".

I'll expand the explanation about this.

Ideally, this will be the same as the field `start_timestamp` on the transaction
so all relative timestamps for transaction and profile can be both from the same
reference point and we don't need to correct relative timestamps.

If for some reasons, the profiler implementation doesn't allow that, set it to
the closest time to the profiler start (or to whatever the profiler gives you as
a profile start timestamp) and it will be used to align with the transaction
later on.

`transaction`

: *Object, required.* Contains information about the transaction it is
associated with.

It can have the following attributes:
- `id`: *String, required.* Contains the transaction ID.
- `name`: *String, required.* Contains the name of the transaction.
- `trace_id`: *String, required.* Contains the trace ID the transaction is part
  of.
- `active_thread_id`: *String, required.* Contains the thread ID the transaction
  was started on as `uint64` converted to a string. On mobile, this is usually
  the main thread.

`version`

: *String, required.* Represents the version of the Sample format.

Acceptable values are:
- `"1"`

### Profile data

> The profile data consists of a list of samples referring to stacks which in
> terms refers to frames as well as some metadata about threads. This is to keep the amount of data we transfer to the
> server as limited as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The profile data consists of 
* sample, which specifies the start time, their corresponding thread and a stack,
* stacks, which are a list of frames,
* (stack) frames, which identify the function and/or line of code for each item in a stacktrace,
* thread metadata, with info about threads.

The selected format is trying to keep the amount of data we transfer to the server as limited as possible.
```

```json
{
  "profile": {
    "samples": [
      { ... },
      ...
    ],
    "stacks": [
      [ ... ],
      ...
    ],
    "frames": [
      { ... },
      ...
    ],
    "thread_metadata": {
      "259": {
        ...
      }
    }
  }
}
```

When collecting a stack trace, you will:
1. Capture the stack trace.
2. Capture a timestamp relative to the start of the profile (set in the
`timestamp` field).
3. Capture the thread ID where this stack trace was captured.
4. Create a list of indices for each frames (add it to the frame list if needed
or use the existing frame's index).
5. Check if that stack exists in the list of stacks and if it doesn't, add it to the list of stacks
6. Create a sample containing the thread ID, the relative timestamp and the
stack ID.

`samples`

: *List, required* Contains a list of sample object captured during execution.
Each sample can contain the following attributes:

> - `elapsed_since_start_ns`: *String, required.* Contains the relative timestamp in nanoseconds since the value contained

Reviewer 3: This should mention that it should be a `uint64` formatted as a string. `float` is not accepted.

in the `timestamp` field when the sample was captured.
- `stack_id`: *Integer, required.* Contains the stack index from the `stacks` list.
- `thread_id`: *String, required.* Contains the thread ID on which the sample was captured.

```json
{
  "elapsed_since_start_ns": 1234567890,
  "stack_id": 1,
  "thread_id": "259",
}
```

`stacks`

: *List, required*. Contains a list of frame indices forming a stack trace.

Stacks should be ordered from outermost to innermost frame.

`frames`

: *List, required*. Contains a list of frame objects (see [Frame
Attributes](/sdk/event-payloads/stacktrace/#frame-attributes)).

Technically, all attributes are optional so we won't reject the payload if some

> are missing.

Reviewer 2: Is that true, though? If there is absolutely no frame information, what is shown then?

Reviewer 2: Maybe just say the rules are the same as for standard event stack frames & symbolication?
